WI #616: Addition of five columns related to `Pricing Currency` (#848)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/pricedcost.md

# Priced Cost

> The Priced Cost represents the cost of the [*charge*](#glossary:charge) after applying all reduced rates, discounts, and the applicable portion of relevant, prepaid purchases (one-time or recurring) that covered this charge, as denominated in [Pricing Currency](#pricingcurrency).  Priced Cost can be denominated in [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency) by multiplying by the [Pricing to Billing Exchange Rate](#pricingtobillingexchangerate).  This allows the practitioner to perform a conversion from either 1) a [*national currency*](#glossary:nationalcurrency) to a [*virtual currency*](#glossary:virtualcurrency) (e.g. tokens to USD), or 2) one national currency to another (e.g. EUR to USD).

Reviewer: Wondering how this is different to Billed Cost, the way it is worded, although different still suggests it is the same as Billed Cost, the only differentiator here is you are also applying amortization to the calculation from the way it is worded whereas billed cost excludes any amortization.

Author: The goal here is for the definition to express "how much virtual currency did you spend on this charge"?

@rileyjenk and @GrinsteadJ, curious to hear your thoughts here.

Reviewer: @shawnalpay i wonder if it might be better to call this virtual cost, and have it specifically related the amount used of virtual currency only.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @thecloudman that `PricedCost` and `BilledCost` (and `EffectiveCost`) are analogous and not easily discernable at face value, and `PricedCost` should be renamed to `VirtualCost` or something close to establish a difference

Author: @thecloudman This definition was meant to align with [Effective Cost](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/blob/main/specification/columns/effectivecost.md).  When a non-zero value is presented in Priced Cost, Billed Cost would presumably be zero.  To that end, I'm open to lengthening the name to something more explicit, like `Priced Effective Cost`, `Pricing Effective Cost`, or even `Priced Currency Effective Cost`.  Lmk if you have an opinion about that.

The issue with calling this `VirtualCost` is that this column can and shall contain entries for national currencies -- for example, a purchase of GrahamCoin would be made in AUD.

Author: Thank you all for weighing in on the name!  After having seen the comments here, and having discussed this with several folks 1:1 this week including @rileyjenk and @mike-finopsorg, I agree my attempt at semantic brevity does not trump a clear, self-documenting, verbose name.  Therefore, I have issued a separate commit [here](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/848/commits/36954c4783020e7dea87930b262d998acff0e068) that renames this from `Priced Cost` to `Pricing Currency Effective Cost`.

To your point about why include this column and not other variants, @UdamDewaraja, I heard loud and clear in TF3 that our SaaS partners felt it very important to declare this particular datapoint to their consumers; that suggestion had full consensus in the room.  We can certainly discuss that point further in TF3 this coming Friday.

Resolving this thread; please re-open or comment elsewhere if this does not work for any of you.

The PricedCost column adheres to the following requirements:

* PricedCost presence in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset) is defined as follows:

>   * PricedCost MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider presents prices in a virtual currency (e.g. credits, tokens).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * PricedCost MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider represents usage in virtual currency (e.g. credits, tokens).
```

Author: I'm not sure I agree with this, but I don't want to rule it out.  I'd like to defer to @rileyjenk or @GrinsteadJ for their thoughts.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I'm not sold on this change either - this seems to somewhat inadvertently introduce the topic of 'usage' to a conversation about spend.

Reviewer 4: I don't agree with this change...generally the way they are expressed is usage unit to price in their token/credit/point.

Reviewer 2: I would suggest just simplifying to:

```suggestion
  * PricedCost MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider supports virtual currencies (e.g. credits, tokens).
```

Reviewer: I prefer your suggestion @cnharris10

Author: Great!  Committing the suggestion.

>   * PricedCost MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider presents prices and usage in different national currencies (e.g. prices in USD and usage in EUR).

Reviewer 4: This doesn't read consistently with the pricing currency column

Author: Could you give me some more context?  I'm not immediately following.

Reviewer 2: I don't like extending support for multiple national currency conversions in this column.  We will not be able to support a provider that has 1 virtual currency and also wants to show an initial cost in 1 national currency but a Billed/EffectiveCost in another.

Reviewer 5: @cnharris10 by initial cost, do you mean LIstCost?

Reviewer 6: I disagree, and would like to show my support for keeping support for national currency conversions. This is an existing problem that practitioners gain benefit from and makes these addition columns have the most value across the entire FOCUS dataset.

Author: As the creator of this thread, @rileyjenk has confirmed [here](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/848#issuecomment-2741126631) he's good on this one now.  I'll still bring this thread up in TF3 tomorrow.

Reviewer 2: > I disagree, and would like to show my support for keeping support for national currency conversions. This is an existing problem that practitioners gain benefit from and makes these addition columns have the most value across the entire FOCUS dataset.

I agree that currency conversion is important but given that we're creating a polymorphic feature that allows _either_ national or virtual currency conversion, doesn't this limit the ability for a provider to do both?  If so, is there any way we can classify that this is a problem or not (i.e. not a problem if < 1% of providers do this).

Author: I'll link a part of an eloquent post by @toddkblake [here](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/848/files/2d7b921e3cb3e0cb0782b1d54c20a10cf96b1448#r2003173341):

> I don't think the spec needs to explain all of these translations at various points in time, it just needs to provide an exchange between the Pricing{Cost,Currency} and Billing{Cost,Currency} which can (a) vary overtime and (b) account for multiple currency translations.

We discussed this further in Mar 21 TF3, and the consensus was that it is practical for the spec to create spaces to go from Pricing to Billing, and multiple currency translations may happen in between -- but the provider could certainly create custom columns to tell that intermediate story.

@UdamDewaraja and @rileyjenk, please weigh in here as well, as agreed in TF3 today.

Author: Resolving per discussions in TF3 on Mar 21, and per confirmation from @cnharris10 in Maintainers on Mar 24.

>   * PricedCost MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider presents prices and bills in different national currencies (e.g. priced in USD and billed in EUR).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * PricedCost MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider presents usage in different national currencies (e.g. priced in USD and billed in EUR).
```

Author: Same point as I made [here](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/848#discussion_r1997460587).  Does this work for you, @thecloudman?

```suggestion
  * PricedCost MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider presents prices and usage in different national currencies (e.g. prices in USD and usage in EUR).
```

  * PricedCost MAY be present in a FOCUS dataset in all other cases.
* PricedCost MUST be of type Decimal.
* PricedCost MUST conform to [NumericFormat](#numericformat) requirements.
* PricedCost MUST NOT be null.
* PricedCost MUST be a valid decimal value.

> * PricedCost MUST be denominated in the [PricingCurrency](#pricingcurrency).

Author: @ijurica My understanding of our editorial requirements is that you must link in the first use of another column in the _normative requirements_ section, not the entire column definition.  Am I wrong in that understanding?

> * PricedCost MUST be denominated in the [PricingCurrency](#pricingcurrency).

Reviewer 7: The editorial guidelines state: 'the first time they appear in a section...' From day one, I assumed this referred to the Column spec, but I might be wrong 😄 

We can resolve this conversation as-is and address this in all the columns later (par of consistency review) once we determine what should be applied. Do you agree?

> * PricedCost MUST be denominated in the [PricingCurrency](#pricingcurrency).

Author: That's a fair point.  Perhaps we need to define what "section" means.  In any case, yes we can wait for consistency review for this!  Resolving.

# Priced Cost

The Priced Cost represents the cost of the [*charge*](#glossary:charge) after applying all reduced rates, discounts, and the applicable portion of relevant, prepaid purchases (one-time or recurring) that covered this charge, as denominated in [Pricing Currency](#pricingcurrency).  Priced Cost can be denominated in [Billing Currency](#billingcurrency) by multiplying by the [Pricing to Billing Exchange Rate](#pricingtobillingexchangerate).  This allows the practitioner to perform a conversion from either 1) a [*national currency*](#glossary:nationalcurrency) to a [*virtual currency*](#glossary:virtualcurrency) (e.g. tokens to USD), or 2) one national currency to another (e.g. EUR to USD).

The PricedCost column adheres to the following requirements:

* PricedCost presence in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset) is defined as follows:
  * PricedCost MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider supports virtual currencies (e.g. credits, tokens).

>   * PricedCost MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider presents prices and usage in different national currencies (e.g. prices in USD and usage in EUR).

Reviewer: Agreed with Udam's suggestions

>   * PricedCost MUST be present in a FOCUS dataset when the provider presents prices and usage in different national currencies (e.g. prices in USD and usage in EUR).

Author: Sustaining and resolving per [this separate comment](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/848#discussion_r2004767353).

  * PricedCost MAY be present in a FOCUS dataset in all other cases.
* PricedCost MUST be of type Decimal.
* PricedCost MUST conform to [NumericFormat](#numericformat) requirements.
* PricedCost MUST NOT be null.

> * PricedCost MUST be a valid decimal value.

Author: I'll leave it to @ijurica to explain further -- but yes, this follows the guidelines as proposed in #787, which says that Data Type and Value Range are separate normative requirements.  

> Is the intention to say this could be a zero, positive, or negative value?

In a word, yes.  If we restricted the values to be, say, only positive, than the Value Range normative requirement would look a little less out of place.  But it's technically correct to separately say "data type = Decimal" and "use any valid Decimal value you want".

If this feels off to you, please direct your concern to the guidelines markdown in #787, and we can make sure make any necessary changes here during consistency review.  Resolving.

* PricedCost MUST be denominated in the [PricingCurrency](#pricingcurrency).

## Column ID

PricedCost

## Display Name

Priced Cost

## Description

> The cost of the [*charge*](#glossary:charge) as denominated in [Pricing Currency](#pricingcurrency).

Author: More than happy to be that specific; was trying to be brief, but clarity trumps brevity.  Just a couple small tweaks to that to retain the glossary and column references, and which I've implemented [here](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/848#discussion_r2004787693) as a separate suggestion, owing to the column rename.
